# Research
Collection of my MSc and BSc theses and other interesting research I have conducted. Demonstrates my abilities as a researcher and provides insight into how I plan projects to follow all stages of the SDLC.

# MSc Thesis - DPKM: A Key Management Scheme Facilitating WireGuard-based Data Plane Encryption in SDN
## Abstract
Industry focus has shifted from static, hardware-centric networking architectures to dynamic, software-centric solutions, driving widespread investment in Software Deﬁned Networks (SDN). SDN streamlines network management by moving forwarding logic from data plane entities to a controller, enabling programmatic conﬁguration of nodes and real-time adjustments to the topology. Encrypted node-to-node communication enhances security but must be manually established, inhibiting the dynamicity of SDN and creating management challenges. Evidence exists that automated data plane encryption could be achieved through integration of a key management scheme. However, no proof of concept could be identiﬁed to support this hypothesis.This thesis documents the enhancement of existing SDN software components to support 
automated data plane encryption through a novel key management scheme called DPKM. Extensions are proposed for OpenFlow-based SDN, using the tunnelling protocol WireGuard to build encrypted connections between nodes. The controller is modiﬁed to administer the key management lifecycle and perform eight procedures over an extended version of the OpenFlow protocol. The nodes support a WireGuard interface and adjust the tunnel conﬁguration based on the controller’s instructions. Full operation of DPKM functionality is provided by an intuitive user interface (UI) connected to the controller through REST API’s.Development took place across three VM’s, using four GitHub repositories to publish extensions to the software of Floodlight, Open vSwitch, OpenFlow, and Floodlight-webui. DPKM was built and tested for a basic SDN with one controller and two nodes. The contributions of this thesis have helped advance the ﬁeld of study by proving the feasibility of automated key management and dynamic encryption in SDN. The delivered product was critically evaluated, highlighting the need for further work before it can have applicability in industry. Overall, DPKM achieved its objectives and is a stepping-stone for a multitude of future research directions.

# BSc Thesis - TheMusicExchangeProject: A web application for connecting musicians 
## Abstract
Music is a fundamental part of our society and culture. Playing an instrument is one of the richest human emotional experiences providing opportunities for sharing and connecting with others and enhancing well-being. Creating the right social setting is integral to generating an enjoyable and satisfying musical experience. Many of the existing products fail to facilitate a setting that includes musicians that are beginners, lacking confidence, or want to play on a casual basis. TheMusicExchangeProject implements a modern, safe, and easy to use web application, establishing a new way for musicians of all abilities to connect. Providing a range of customisable search preferences, a relationship system, and a real-time messaging service, this project acts as a catalyst for pairing likeminded individuals. Powered by a large array of 
tools and frameworks including ASP.NET Core MVC, this project has produced a platform with an aesthetically pleasing  client  side and complex server side functionality. With a sophisticated database, the project has the ability to handle expansion as popularity increases and has been designed to be built upon in the future.

